[WIP] Add page for installing a new OS on a robot (#27)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/02-projects/01-nubots/11-flashing.mdx

---
section: Projects
chapter: NUbots
title: Flashing a Robot

> description: How to installing a new operating system on the robot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to install a new operating system on a robot.
```

   - Burn the Arch Linux ISO you just downloaded to the USB drive (in this example we are using `/dev/sdb`)
   - ```sh
     sudo dd bs=4M if=~/Downloads/archlinux-2019.11.01-x86_64.iso of=/dev/sdb status=progress oflag=sync
     ```

1. If you are using a brand new NUC, Boot into the BIOS on the NUC

   - Turn the NUC on and hold down the F2 button
   - Intel Visual BIOS should appear
   - Navigate to "Advanced" menu
   - Navigate to "Power" then set "After Power Failure" to "Power On"
     ![BIOS Power Menu](./images/flashing/bios_power.jpg 'BIOS Power Menu')
   - Navigate to "Boot" and then "Boot Configuration"
     - Ensure "Boot USB Devices First" is enabled in "UEFI Boot"
     - Ensure "USB" is enabled in "Boot Devices"
       ![BIOS Boot Configuration Menu](./images/flashing/bios_boot_configuration.jpg 'BIOS Boot Configuration Menu')
   - Navigate to "Secure Boot" and disable "Secure Boot"
     ![BIOS Secure Boot Menu](./images/flashing/bios_secure_boot.jpg 'BIOS Secure Boot Menu')
   - Press F10 to save settings and exit and ensure you USB drive is plugged in

> 1. If you are not using a brand new NUC, ensure your USB drive is plugged in and turn the NUC on

Reviewer: Numbering:

```suggestion
2. If you are not using a brand new NUC, ensure your USB drive is plugged in and turn the NUC on
```

Same with 3, 4 and 5 below, as well as in **Manually setting up a WiFi connection on the robot**.

Or is the numbering messed up when you format the file?

---
section: Projects
chapter: NUbots
title: Flashing a Robot
description: How to installing a new operating system on the robot
slug: /projects/nubots/flashing
---

## Flashing a Robot

To install Arch Linux (our OS of choice) on to a robot perform the following instructions

> 1. Download the latest [Arch Linux LiveUSB](https://www.archlinux.org/download/) image and burn it on to a [USB thumb drive](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/USB_flash_installation_media#In_GNU/Linux)

Reviewer 2: dd didn't work, suggest etcher

   - If you have no connection and need to set up the WiFi interface, see below.

1. Download the installation script [https://git.io/JeWaF](https://git.io/JeWaF) and make sure the script is executable

   - The installation script is located in the NUbots repository at [doc/ArchInstall/arch_install.sh](doc/ArchInstall/arch_install.sh)
   - ```sh
     wget https://git.io/JeWaF -O ./arch_install.sh
     chmod +x ./arch_install.sh
     ```

1. Execute the script and follow the instructions
   - ```sh
     ./arch_install.sh
     ```

The installation script will end by downloading a secondary script and providing you with a command that you must run

```sh
ROBOT_NUMBER=<N> arch-chroot /mnt ./arch-chroot_install.sh
```

Substitute `<N>` with the number of the robot that you are building. This will influence the IP address of the robot as well as the robots' hostname.

Finally, once that script has finished, you must run one more command.

```sh
/mnt/arch-post_install.sh
```

This command will end by rebooting the robot. When this happens be sure to remove the USB installation drive from robot so that you may boot into the new system.

> The final two scripts can be found at [doc/ArchInstall/arch-chroot_install.sh](doc/ArchInstall/arch-chroot_install.sh) and [doc/ArchInstall/arch-post_install.sh](doc/ArchInstall/arch-post_install.sh)

Reviewer 2: these links dont work
